(i) Show that this is a complex.

Now assume that $A = k$ is a field.

(ii) Show that if $C$ or $D$ is an exact sequence, then so is $C \otimes D$.

Hint: Use the decomposition of Exercise 7.8.4.

(iii) Show that any complex $C$ can be identified with a direct sum of an exact sequence and the complex consisting of $H^i(C)$ with the zero differentials, in such a way that the induced isomorphism $H^i(C) \to H^i(C)$ is the identity.

(iv) Show that there is a natural isomorphism of vector spaces

$$
H^i(C \otimes D) \cong \bigoplus_{j+m=i} H^j(C) \otimes H^m(D).
$$

This is the **Künneth** formula.

## 7.9. Exact functors

**Definition 7.9.1.** A functor $F$ between two abelian categories is **additive** if it induces homomorphisms on Hom groups. Also, for $k$-linear categories one says that $F$ is **$k$-linear** if it induces $k$-linear maps between Hom spaces.

It is easy to show that if $F$ is an additive functor, then $F(X \oplus Y)$ is canonically isomorphic to $F(X) \oplus F(Y)$.

**Example 7.9.2.** The functors $\operatorname{Ind}_K^G$, $\operatorname{Res}_K^G$, $\operatorname{Hom}_G(V, ?)$ in the theory of group representations over a field $k$ are additive and $k$-linear.

**Definition 7.9.3.** An additive functor $F : \mathcal{C} \to \mathcal{D}$ between abelian categories is **left exact** if for any exact sequence

$$
0 \to X \to Y \to Z,
$$

the sequence

$$
0 \to F(X) \to F(Y) \to F(Z)
$$

is exact. $F$ is **right exact** if for any exact sequence

$$
X \to Y \to Z \to 0,
$$

the sequence

$$
F(X) \to F(Y) \to F(Z) \to 0
$$

is exact. $F$ is **exact** if it is both left and right exact.
