[**42**] Pesic, Peter. "Introduction". In Hermann Weyl, *Mind and Nature: Selected Writings on Philosophy, Mathematics, and Physics* (Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press, 2009), pp. 1–19.

[**43**] Pickering, Andrew. "Concepts and the Mangle of Practice: Constructing Quaternions". In *18 Unconventional Essays on the Nature of Mathematics*, ed. Reuben Hersh (New York: Springer, 2006), pp. 250–288.

[**44**] Pycior, Helena M. "The Role of Sir William Rowan Hamilton in the Development of British Modern Algebra". Ph. D. dissertation, Cornell University, 1976.

[**45**] Reid, Constance. *Hilbert-Courant* (New York: Springer, 1986).

[**46**] Rowe, David E. "Hermann Weyl, the Reluctant Revolutionary". *Mathematical Intelligencer* 25:1 (2003): 61–70.

[**47**] Rowe, David E. "Lie, Marius Sophus". In *New Dictionary of Scientific Biography*, vol. 22 (Detroit, MI: Charles Scribner's Sons, 2008), pp. 307–310.

[**48**] Rowe, David E. "Three letters from Sophus Lie to Felix Klein on Parisian mathematics during the early 1880s". *Mathematical Intelligencer* 7:3 (1985): 74–77.

[**49**] Sigurdsson, Skuli. "Physics, Life, and Contingency: Born, Schrödinger and Weyl in Exile". In *Forced Migration and Scientific Change: Émigré German-Speaking Scientists and Scholars after 1933*, eds. Mitchell G. Ash and Alfons Söllner (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1996), pp. 48–70.

[**50**] Sigurdsson, Skuli. "On the Road". In *Positioning the History of Science*, eds. Kostas Gavroglu and Jürgen Renn (Dordrecht: Springer, 2007), pp. 149–157.

[**51**] Sigurdsson, Skuli. "Journeys in Spacetime". In *Hermann Weyl's Raum-Zeit-Materie and a General Introduction to His Scientific Work*, ed. Erhard Scholz (Basel: Birkhäuser Verlag, 2001), pp. 15–47.

[**52**] Sigurdsson, Skuli. "Hermann Weyl, Mathematics and Physics, 1900–1927". PhD dissertation, Harvard University, 1991.

[**53**] Sigurdsson, Skuli. "Unification, Geometry and Ambivalence: Hilbert, Weyl, and the Göttingen Community". In *Trends in the Historiography of Science*, eds. Kostas Gavroglu, Jean Christianidis, and Efthymios Nicolaidis (Dordrecht: Kluwer, 1994), pp. 355–367.

[**54**] Solomon, Ronald M. "Burnside and Finite Simple Groups". In *The Collected Papers of William Burnside*, vol. 1, pp. 45–54.

[**55**] Sternberg, Shlomo. *Group Theory and Physics* (Cambridge, UK: Cambridge University Press, 1995).
