not feel that he has a satisfactory understanding of the difference between induction and proof, or between a concept and its application" [**56**, p. 371]. Whoever was right in this dispute, Lie's public accusations against widely respected and influential Klein reflected badly on Lie's reputation.

Eventually Lie suffered a nervous breakdown and was diagnosed with "neurasthenia", a popular mental disease dubbed the "American Nervousness", or "Americanitis". Its cause was ascribed to the stress of modern urban life and the exhaustion of an individual's "nervous energy". Lie spent some months in the supposedly less stressful environment of a psychiatric clinic and upon some reflection decided that he was better off in his mathematics department. His mathematical abilities returned, but his psyche never fully recovered. Rumors spread of his mental illness, possibly fueled by his opponents, who tried to invalidate his accusations.

In the meantime, trying to assert its cultural (and eventually political) independence from Sweden, Norway took steps to bring back its leading intellectuals. The Norwegian National Assembly voted to establish a personal chair in transformation group theory for Lie, matching his high Leipzig salary. Lie was anxious to return to his homeland, but his wife and three children did not share his nostalgia. He eventually returned to Norway in 1898 with only a few months to live.

Lie "thought and wrote in grandiose terms, in a style that has now gone out of fashion, and that would be censored by our scientific journals", wrote one commentator [**26**, p. iii]. Lie was always more concerned with originality than with rigor. "Let us reason with concepts!" he often exclaimed during his lectures and drew geometrical pictures instead of providing analytical proofs [**22**, p. 244]. "Without Phantasy one would never become a Mathematician", he wrote. "[W]hat gave me a Place among the Mathematicians of our Day, despite my Lack of Knowledge and Form, was the Audacity of my Thinking" [**56**, p. 409]. Hardly lacking relevant knowledge, Lie indeed had trouble putting his ideas into publishable form. Due to Engel's diligence, Lie's research on transformation groups was summed up in three grand volumes, but Lie never liked this ghost-written work
